docs/10-role-repos.md, before:

Elastic Repos
=========

![Test Role repos](https://github.com/netways/ansible-collection-elasticstack/actions/workflows/test_role_repos.yml/badge.svg)

The role adds Elastic repositories to the package manager. It's main use is in connection with other roles that provide installation and configuration of the Elastic Stack.

Requirements
------------

GPG needs to be installed on the systems to verify the package signature. This will be installed as part of the role. Below you can find a list of packages that will be installed.
* Debian family: `apt-transport-https`, `gpg` and `gpg-agent`
* RedHat family: `gnupg`
* Suse family: `gpg2`

For SuSE hosts you will need the Ansible collection `community.general` on your Ansible controller.

Role Variables
--------------

* *elasticstack_release*: Major release version of Elastic stack to configure. (default: `7`). `7` and `8` are supported.
* *elasticstack_variant*: Variant of the stack to install. Valid values: `elastic` or `oss`. (default: `elastic`).
* *elasticstack_enable_repos*: Enable repositories after creating them. (default: `true`) Only works on RPM based distributions!

Please note that no `oss` versions are available for Elastic Stack later than `7`. This role will fail if you try to install them.

Usage
--------

Upgrades
========

If you want to be able to update your operating system without worrying about accidentally upgrading Elastic Stack, set `elasticstack_enable_repos` to `false`. The roles in this collection will enable the repository in case they need it. Keep in mind that this will only work on rpm based distributions.

Example playbook
================

```
  - hosts: all
    become: yes
    collections:
      - netways.elasticstack
    roles:
      - repos
```

Commit message:

Move and rename `elasticstack_enable_repos` to the `repos` role
This variable is only part of the `repos` role. There is no need to
define it inside the `elasticstack` role.

docs/10-role-repos.md, after:

# Role `repos`

This role will add the Elastic repositories to the package manager (dnf/yum. apt or zypper). It will not install packages (these can be done with the role `elasticsearch`).

## Requirements

GPG needs to be installed on the systems to verify the package signature. This will be installed as part of the role. Below you can find a list of packages that will be installed.
* Debian family: `apt-transport-https`, `gpg` and `gpg-agent`
* RedHat family: `gnupg`
* Suse family: `gpg2`

For SuSE hosts you will need the Ansible collection `community.general` on your Ansible controller.

## Variables

There are variables that are needed in more than one role of the collection. These are defined inside the "meta" role `elasticstack`. The role `elasticstack` is imported in this role.

**List of variables from `elasticsearch` used inside `repos`:**
* `elasticstack_release`: Major release version of Elastic stack to configure. (default: `7`). `7` and `8` are supported.
* `elasticstack_variant`: Variant of the stack to install. Valid values: `elastic` or `oss`. (default: `elastic`).

Please note that no `oss` versions are available for Elastic Stack later than `7`. This role will fail if you try to install them.

**Variables that are explicity defined inside `repos`:**
* `repos_enable_repos`: Enable repositories after creating them. Only works on RPM based distributions (default: `true`) 

## Usage

### Upgrades

If you want to be able to update your operating system without worrying about accidentally upgrading Elastic Stack, set `repos_enable_repos` to `false`. The roles in this collection will enable the repository in case they need it. Keep in mind that this will only work on rpm based distributions.

### Example playbook

The following playbook will add the Elastic repository to the package manager.

```
  - hosts: all
    become: yes
    collections:
      - netways.elasticstack
    roles:
      - repos
```
