docs/pipelines.md, before:

# Pipelines #

This only refers to "non-connector" pipelines.

## Git managed ##

If you have pipeline code managed in (and available via) Git repositories, you can use this role to check them out and integrate them into `pipelines.yml`.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
    source: https://github.com/widhalmt/syslog-logstash-pipeline.git
```

Optionally you can add options `input` and `output` to every entry. This will add basic `redis` input/output and using the value as `key`.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
    source: https://github.com/widhalmt/syslog-logstash-pipeline.git
    input: syslog_in
    output: syslog_out
```

## Custom pipelines ##

If you have other ways of putting pipeline code into the correct directories, you can just skip the `source` option.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
```
**You have to make sure the code is available or Logstash will constantly log errors!**

This will create the directories and integrate all `*.conf` files within via `pipelines.yml`.

Commit message:

Allow to use specific version of git managed pipeline (#98)
* Allow to use specific version of git managed pipeline

fixes #97

docs/pipelines.md, after:

# Pipelines #

This only refers to "non-connector" pipelines.

## Git managed ##

If you have pipeline code managed in (and available via) Git repositories, you can use this role to check them out and integrate them into `pipelines.yml`.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
    source: https://github.com/widhalmt/syslog-logstash-pipeline.git
```

Optionally you can add options `input` and `output` to every entry. This will add basic `redis` input/output and using the value as `key`.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
    source: https://github.com/widhalmt/syslog-logstash-pipeline.git
    input: syslog_in
    output: syslog_out
```

You can add a `version` attribute to your pipeline. It defaults to `main`. You can use every string, [Ansibles git](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/git_module.html) module accepts.

## Custom pipelines ##

If you have other ways of putting pipeline code into the correct directories, you can just skip the `source` option.

```
logstash_pipelines:
  syslog:
    name: syslog
```
**You have to make sure the code is available or Logstash will constantly log errors!**

This will create the directories and integrate all `*.conf` files within via `pipelines.yml`.
