docs/role-repos.md, before:

Elastic Repos
=========

![Test Role repos](https://github.com/netways/ansible-collection-elasticstack/actions/workflows/test_role_repos.yml/badge.svg)

The role adds Elastic repositories to the package manager. It's main use is in connection with other roles that provide installation and configuration of the Elastic Stack.

Requirements
------------

* You need `gpg` to be installed because packages / repositories are digitally signed and verified.
* Debian and Ubuntu hosts need to have `apt-transport-https` installed to deal with Elastics repositories.
* Ubuntu hosts also need to have `gpg-agent` installed.
* For SuSE hosts you need the Ansible collection `community.general` on your Ansible controller.

Role Variables
--------------

* *elastic_release*: Major release version of Elastic stack to configure. (default: `7`). `7` and `8` are supported.
* *elastic_variant*: Variant of the stack to install. Valid values: `elastic` or `oss`. (default: `elastic`).

Please note that no `oss` versions are available for Elastic Stack later than `7`. This role will fail if you try to install them.

Usage
--------

```
  - hosts: all
    become: yes
    collections:
      - netways.elasticstack
    roles:
      - repos
```

Commit message:

Allow disabling repos per default (#108)
This introduces a new variable that will disable yum repositories per
default and re-enables them temporarily when modifying packages. It's
not possible to disable apt repositories temporarily so we need to have
two different approaches.

fixes #106
fixes #76
fixes #98
supersedes #101

docs/role-repos.md, after:

Elastic Repos
=========

![Test Role repos](https://github.com/netways/ansible-collection-elasticstack/actions/workflows/test_role_repos.yml/badge.svg)

The role adds Elastic repositories to the package manager. It's main use is in connection with other roles that provide installation and configuration of the Elastic Stack.

Requirements
------------

* You need `gpg` to be installed because packages / repositories are digitally signed and verified.
* Debian and Ubuntu hosts need to have `apt-transport-https` installed to deal with Elastics repositories.
* Ubuntu hosts also need to have `gpg-agent` installed.
* For SuSE hosts you need the Ansible collection `community.general` on your Ansible controller.

Role Variables
--------------

* *elastic_release*: Major release version of Elastic stack to configure. (default: `7`). `7` and `8` are supported.
* *elastic_variant*: Variant of the stack to install. Valid values: `elastic` or `oss`. (default: `elastic`).
* *elastic_enable_repos*: Enable repositories after creating them. (default: `true`) Only works on RPM based distributions!

Please note that no `oss` versions are available for Elastic Stack later than `7`. This role will fail if you try to install them.

Usage
--------

Upgrades
========

If you want to be able to update your operating system without worrying about accidentally upgrading Elastic Stack, set `elastic_enable_repos` to `false`. The roles in this collection will enable the repository in case they need it. Keep in mind that this will only work on rpm based distributions.

Example playbook
================

```
  - hosts: all
    become: yes
    collections:
      - netways.elasticstack
    roles:
      - repos
```
